NOAA Nautical Chart Data Agreement
==================================


RNC Charts
http://www.nauticalcharts.noaa.gov/mcd/Raster/download_agreement.htm


User Agreement By using the NOAA Raster Navigational Charts (NOAA RNCs®)
distributed here, you acknowledge that you have read, understood, and
accepted the terms and conditions stated in this User Agreement. NOAA
reserves the right to change this Agreement at any time and without notice.
Your use of the Raster Navigational Charts available here shall constitute
your agreement to be bound by this Agreement and any changes.

Description of NOAA Raster Navigational Charts (NOAA RNCs®)  The NOAA RNCs®
distributed here are geo-referenced, full-color images of NOAA's paper
nautical charts, published by NOAA in the .BSB format. NOAA updates the RNCs
for Notices to Mariners on a weekly basis. They are an official product of
NOAA, and meet the S-61 Standard, Raster Navigational Charts®, of the
International Hydrographic Organization. 

Description of NOAA ENCs® The NOAA ENCs distributed here are a
geo-referenced database(s) of NOAA nautical chart features and their
attributes, published by NOAA in the format of the International
Hydrographic Organization S-57 Standard, "IHO Transfer Standard for Digital
Hydrographic Data." NOAA updates the ENCs for Notice to Mariners on a weekly
basis (timing of their availability is not guaranteed). NOAA ENCs are an
official product of NOAA.

The NOAA RNCs® are intended for navigational use. They may be used to meet
federal chart carriage regulations published in the Code of Federal
Regulations. On November 15, 2005, the regulations were as stated below.
These regulations may change, and mariners are advised to check the Code of
Federal Regulations for their current status.

    * In December 1998, the International Maritime Organization's Maritime
      Safety Committee approved amendments to Resolution A.817(19) stating
      that some ECDIS equipment may operate in Raster Chart Display System
      (RCDS) mode when the relevant chart information is not available in
      vector mode (e.g., NOAA ENC). The amendments state that when used in
      RCDS mode, ECDIS equipment should be used together with an appropriate
      folio of up-to-date paper charts to meet chart carriage requirements.

    * On May 2, 2001, the United States Coast Guard amended the United
      States chart carriage regulations to permit government vessels to use
      electronic charting and navigation systems in lieu of paper charts.

    * On August 15, 2002, the United States Coast Guard issued a statement
      of policy to bring its regulations into agreement with SOLAS Chapter V
      (as amended by the changes taking effect July 1, 2002). The policy
      statement said that, if a ship has an approved ECDIS installed
      according to SOLAS, Chapter V, the ECDIS will be considered as meeting
      the ship's nautical chart carriage regulations. The ships that are
      affected are:

	  o U.S.-flagged ships of 150 or more gross tons that engage on
            international voyages.

	  o U.S.-flagged ships certificated solely for service on the Great
            Lakes and the St. Lawrence River.

	  o Foreign-flag ships to which SOLAS, Chapter V, applies that are
            operating on the navigable waters of the United States.

This policy is not applicable to U.S.-flag ships engaged only on domestic
voyages. These ships must continue to comply with existing navigation
equipment requirements until the chart carriage regulations are formally
amended.

Limitations on Use NOAA RNCs® may be redistributed, but redistributed NOAA
RNCs® are NOT considered official NOAA RNCs®, and do not meet federal chart
carriage regulations for regulated vessels. This official status attends
only to the original downloaded files. NOAA has established a program under
which distributors be certified to redistribute NOAA RNCs® such that the
RNCs will retain their official status and meet applicable chart carriage
regulations.  The RNC agent agreement can be viewed at
http://www.nauticalcharts.noaa.gov/mcd/Raster/dist_require.html.

NOAA RNCs® and their geoTIF versions (future) may not be used to print
commercial products. Individuals may print the NOAA RNCs® or their geoTIF
versions for personal use, but the result is not a NOAA chart, and may not
be used to meet federal chart carriage regulations. 

Copying of the NOAA RNCs® to any other server or location for further
distribution is discouraged unless the following guidelines are followed: 1)
this User Agreement is displayed and accepted by anyone accessing the NOAA
RNCs®, and 2) a reference to this Web site is included so that anyone
accessing the NOAA RNCs® is advised of their origin. 

If these NOAA RNCs® are incorporated into any other product in a form other
than as provided by NOAA, the producer of that product assumes full
liability. 

Warnings Weekly updates to the RNCs are done on a best efforts basis. The
timing of their availability is not guaranteed. You are responsible for
ensuring that your RNCs are the most current edition and that the most
recent updates have been applied. 

NOAA RNCs® were made by scanning the NOAA paper chart printing materials.
Any inaccuracies due to old methods of collecting, processing and displaying
data on the paper chart were transferred to the RNCs. As a result, the
accuracy of modern positioning systems such as GPS may exceed the positional
accuracy of the RNC. The impact of positioning accuracies can be minimized
by not zooming an RNC beyond the scale of the original NOAA chart. 

While NOAA has accuracy standards for each step in the data collection and
chart production process, much of the depth information found on NOAA charts
is based on surveys conducted before 1940, the shoreline is more than 20
years old, and paper charts used to be compiled manually. For more
information regarding the accuracy of electronic charts, click here. 

Trademarks and Copyright

"NOAA ®" and the NOAA ® emblem are registered trademarks of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 

NOAA RNC® is a trademark of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration. 

Clicking the link below signifies acknowledgement of having read the above
statement.



-----

ENC Charts
http://www.nauticalcharts.noaa.gov/mcd/enc/download_agreement.htm


User Agreement By the NOAA Electronic Navigational Charts (NOAA ENCs®)
distributed here, you acknowledge that you have read, understood, and
accepted the terms and conditions stated in this User Agreement. NOAA
reserves the right to change this Agreement at any time and without notice.
Your use of the Electronic Navigational Charts available here shall
constitute your agreement to be bound by any this Agreement and any changes.

Description of NOAA ENCs® The NOAA ENCs distributed here are a
geo-referenced database(s) of NOAA nautical chart features and their
attributes, published by NOAA in the format of the International
Hydrographic Organization S-57 Standard, "IHO Transfer Standard for Digital
Hydrographic Data." NOAA updates the ENCs for Notice to Mariners on a weekly
basis (timing of their availability is not guaranteed). NOAA ENCs are an
official product of NOAA.

Permitted Use The NOAA ENCs are intended for navigational use. They are
intended to be used in their electronic form only. You may download, use,
and redistribute them without restriction, and without payment to NOAA,
except as noted herein.  They may be used to meet federal chart carriage
regulations published in the Code of Federal Regulations. On November 15,
2005, the regulations were as stated below. These regulations may change,
and mariners are advised to check the Code of Federal Regulations for their
current status.

    * On May 2, 2001, the United States Coast Guard amended the United
      States chart carriage regulations to permit government vessels to use
      electronic charting and navigation systems in lieu of paper charts.

    * On July 1, 2002, the International Maritime Organization's (IMO)
      amendments to chapter V of the International Convention for the Safety
      of Life at Sea (SOLAS) became effective after being accepted by the
      Contracting Governments to SOLAS (Jan 2002) and the IMOs Maritime
      Safety Committee (Dec 2000). These amendments, in part, allowed an
      electronic chart display system (ECDIS) using ENCs to be accepted as
      meeting chart carriage requirements of SOLAS Chapter V.

    * On August 15, 2002, the United States Coast Guard issued a statement
      of policy to bring its regulations into agreement with SOLAS Chapter V
      (as amended by the changes taking effect July 1, 2002). The policy
      statement said that, if a ship has an approved ECDIS using official
      ENCs and installed according to SOLAS, Chapter V, the ECDIS will be
      considered as meeting the ship's nautical chart carriage regulations.
      The ships that are affected are:

	 1. U.S.-flagged ships of 150 or more gross tons that engage on
            international voyages.

	 2. U.S.-flagged ships certificated solely for service on the Great
            Lakes and the St. Lawrence River.

	 3. Foreign-flag ships to which SOLAS, Chapter V, applies that are
            operating on the navigable waters of the United States.

This policy is not applicable to U.S.-flag ships engaged only on domestic
voyages. These ships must continue to comply with existing navigation
equipment requirements until the chart carriage regulations are formally
amended.

Limitations on Use NOAA ENCs® used by the party downloading them are
official and meet federal chart carriage regulations as explained herein.
NOAA ENCs® may be redistributed, but redistributed NOAA ENCs are NOT
considered official NOAA ENCs, and do not meet federal chart carriage
regulations for regulated vessels unless redistributed by a "Certified NOAA
ENC Distributor" or by a "Certified NOAA ENC Value Added Distributor". Click
here for further information on ENC Distributorships.

Copying of the NOAA ENCs to any other server or location for further
distribution is discouraged unless the following guidelines are followed:

    * this User Agreement is displayed and accepted by anyone accessing the
      NOAA ENCs

    * a reference to the above Web site is included so that anyone accessing
      the NOAA ENCs is advised of their origin.

If these NOAA ENC's are incorporated into any other product in a form other
than as provided by NOAA, the producer of that product assumes full
liability.

Warnings Weekly updates to the ENCs are done on a "best efforts" basis. The
timing of their availability is not guaranteed. You are responsible for
ensuring that your ENCs are the most current edition and that the most
recent updates have been applied.

While NOAA has accuracy standards for each step in the data collection and
chart production process, much of the depth information found on NOAA charts
is based on surveys conducted before 1940, the shoreline is more than 20
years old, and paper charts used to be compiled manually. Click here for
more information regarding the accuracy of electronic charts.

Trademarks and Copyright "NOAA®" and the NOAA® emblem are registered
trademarks of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

NOAA ENC® is a registered trademark of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration.


Clicking the link below signifies acknowledgement of having read and agree
the above statement.

